this video is brought to you by
Squarespace the best place to easily
build a website portfolio an online
store an all-in-one platform to give you
the best design to showcase your work
[Music]
here are 10 ways to get faster in After
Effects number 1 hardware let's get the
obvious out of the way first if you've
got better hardware After Effects will
run faster and you can work faster a
good CPU will make the most difference
having multiple cores won't help you too
much a top-of-the-line GPU won't really
push the needle compared to its cost
either so you don't need to go crazy
more RAM will allow you to save more RAM
previews but it wouldn't necessarily
help you render faster and I mean all
your files on an SSD will help a bunch -
number two is plugins I'm a plug-in
minimalist
but there are some no-brainers that will
speed up anyone's workflow FX console
and ease copy are free and a must for me
FX console allows you to search for a
fence with a keyboard shortcut and you
can also favorite your most-used effects
it's also got a great tool for saving on
images and copying your composition to
the clipboard so you can paste it in
other software now use this feature all
the time and ease copy allows you to
copy the easing influence of multiple
keyframes and paste them onto other key
frame K bar which allows you to save
some of your frequent tasks to a custom
toolbar and labels which is this toolbar
down on the left here which allows you
to change the color of any layer with
just one click and Overlord is really
fantastic for quickly copying and
pasting vector elements from Illustrator
into After Effects number three is to
remove the Start screen that is this
thing that pops up every time you open
After Effects and almost nobody uses it
so to get rid of that we go to edit
preferences go to general and uncheck
enable Home screen making it work
straight away number four is to
pre-render if you've animated one
element that it's unlikely to change and
you still want it to be visible in your
playback you can render it out in this
project over this wavy ocean background
and it's in every scene and we even made
this a 4k so we can zoom in on the
really closings as well and this uses a
lot of wave warps which can be really
render intensive so that one can't be
using up a ton of resources so what I
did was get this comp
render it out and then re-import it back
in as a video file then I put it inside
this car put over the top here the other
so that instead of rendering all of
these layers and all those effects every
single frame after effects is just
reading this one video file and when it
comes to rendering the final you can
even switch this layer back off and
render out the whole thing again if you
want it to be maximum quality and this
just means that around previews are much
faster and we can concentrate be more
reactive animating the other characters
instead of just loading this background
which isn't really important number five
is to organize your project having an
organized project in your project panel
will save you so much time navigating
around and adding assets it doesn't
really matter what system you use as
long as you have a system and you
understand ur different projects have
different needs I have an assets folder
and a comms folder which I sort of stick
to and each of which has subfolders in
with more specific elements in there and
some more specific folders and nose as
well this is my blank template that
loads as soon as I open a new project
and you can download this for free in
the description to get After Effects to
open up a prejudice by default you
simply go to edit preferences new
project and the tempest box that says
new project loads template click Choose
your project template find a file and
that's it now this is the bare bones
skeleton folder structure that I use and
I add one to this throughout the project
depending on what it needs but most of
my projects will be these basic folders
just in McClure and gyst are a great
resource of this they were template
project as well that is great for larger
projects where lots of people are
involved and they've got a lot of
writing about proper folder structure
and naming conventions and even
breakdowns of how other people organize
their projects number six is use the
mini flowchart if you're not using the
mini flowchart to navigate you could
really save a lot of time by using it
because in tapping your keyboard is the
shortcut to launching it and it is this
little mini flowchart right here this
middle one background oh one is our main
comp that we have currently opened to
the left are all the comps that this
comp appears in and to the right are all
the comps inside this comp and we only
have to click on one of these to open up
that comp
now we can do that again and now we can
see there are a whole bunch more comps
inside this you know main comp here and
this blue line indicates which comp we
just came from so it's easy to navigate
and you know know where we are so that's
easy to see if we need to go back to
that comp and we'd also click on these
arrows to jump further down the line and
go deeper into our nested pre comps a
quick word about this video sponsor
Squarespace I've been using Squarespace
for more than
three years now it's the easiest and
most intuitive platform that I've ever
used there are tons of templates for
whatever you're using your website for I
love their ones with portfolio sites
they look clean and professional you can
go really minimal or a bit fancier but
whatever you choose they like your work
do the talking
that's what I really appreciate in
portfolio design and that's what clients
are there to see your work head to
Squarespace for a free trial and when
you're ready to launch
Squarespace com forward slash been
Marriott to save 10% off your first web
site or domain number seven is set up
your workspaces they're a bunch of
default workspaces that you'll find up
here and through this drop down menu
down here you'll find these in most if
not all the dhobi programs and these are
things to help you show only the
essential panel to what you're working
on the default ones include motion
tracking weather with the tracker and
that's content aware fill and things you
might need for that then you've got some
just for color if you're doing some
color correction begin save your own
custom ones so I have one Marriott one
screen which is my one screen setup
which I use most of the time which other
plugins I use most often and then I have
married record one which is what I use
her recording tutorials that kind of
matches the default layout a bit more
and doesn't show you so many plugins to
save your own workspace you can add
whatever windows you want move them
around to you decide area go here and
select save as new workspace and name it
something fun and now we have that
workspace that we can adjust and find
right up here I now we can easily switch
back to that workspace with both click
and that'll save us a lot of time
opening up new windows and moving them
around
number eight is to set up render
templates if there are any render
settings you use often and more than two
times I think is often enough you should
make those settings a template to do
that you customize what settings you
like click this arrow down here select
make template you can adjust the
settings in here as well it's like okay
then every time you add something new to
the render queue that new template is
listed here
I have custom ones for PNG sequence pro
res 42 and in h.264
at 70 percent quality and those three
formats are what I use 99% of the time
when rendering number nine is keyboard
shortcuts this may be the most obvious
one but learning the keyboard shortcuts
for the commands you use most often
probably save you the most time you go
up to edit and select keyboard shortcuts
there's a nice handy diagram here where
you can see the shortcut commands
on the keyboard you don't have to know
all of these but if you find that you're
splitting up layers very often learning
the keyboard shortcut for that which is
command + Shift + D will really help
improve your workflow and save you a lot
of time in the future even if you learn
one new one a week that's gonna add up
to a lot of time pretty quickly and
there's even a search bar on the
shortcuts menu where you can search for
different commands see if they have a
show card and if they don't you can even
add your own number 10 is auto save you
can customize health and octave x auto
saves from the preference menu and then
selecting auto save the default auto
save is set to 20 minutes which is a
long time to lose so I kind of set my in
between 5 and 10 depending on how heavy
the project is this has saved me so much
time of lost files over the years and
you can also increase the maximum
predict versions as well
default is 5 but I to increase that to
maybe something like 15 just to be safe
in case there's something that I need
from a recent version that I haven't
saved manually and a bonus tip is to
stay out of After Effects time spent
designing your style frames in
Illustrator or Photoshop or wherever
else is almost always quicker they're
trying to wing it and do a bit of design
in After Effects trying to design an
animate at the same time might seem like
a quicker solution and even though I
attempted to do it a lot I finally
really just slows down both processes
and leaves you with a compromised result
my work always comes out better when I'm
designing in my most comfortable program
where design is my sole focus and for me
that is not art effects which means that
when we get into After Effects
everything goes smoother because the
design is already planned out I made a
short playlist of some related videos
that'll think you'll enjoy if you've
made it this far I'll see you in the
next video and please consider
subscribing if you'd like more of these
videos every week